---
title: About
page_id: about
toc: false
---

The term *Omics* refers to a broad set of methods for measuring the type and quantity of various cellular molecules at high resolution, including:

 * DNA ([genomics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genomics))
 * DNA-methylation ([epigenomics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epigenomics))
 * RNA ([transcriptomics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transcriptomics_technologies))
 * proteins ([proteomics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proteomics))
 * lipids ([lipdomics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lipidomics))
 * metabolites ([metabolomics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metabolomics))
 * DNA from populations of organisms ([metagenomics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metagenomics))

Omics technologies have had a significant impact across all aspects of life sciences in recent years and are increasingly being applied in biomedical research and clinical practice. Important medical applications include diagnostics, treatment selection and monitoring, and increased understanding of the molecular mechanisms affecting health.

Data generated by omics technologies tend to be large in size and complex in nature, and often require significant computing resources for storage and analysis. On top of this, for human omics, data can reveal sensitive and personal information, such as disease risk and kinship. Therefore storage and analysis of human omics data requires specialised digital infrastructure and a workforce with a diverse range of skills and knowledge.

Aggregated collections of omics data provide important inputs to research, and increasingly there is a push to combine multiple omics data (multi-omics) to answer key questions in biology and health.

Storage, sharing and analysis of human omics data is an increasingly complex task. Individuals and organisations engaging in this activity need to juggle legal, ethical and intellectual requirements, along with publishing and funding responsibilities. Navigating the maze of specialities is not an easy task, let alone staying up to date with major omics projects and support agencies that exist in this space. 

This *Human Omics Data Sharing Field Guide* seeks to provide a comprehensive resource that gathers together essential information on a broad range of topics to help individuals and organisations on their genomics data sharing journey. Human omics data sharing and analysis is an inherently international activity, and this guide follows suit, however, some details vary between countries, and in those cases we focus on the Australian perspective.

To help with navigation we've broadly divided it into four main topics:

1. [Technnologies and Standards](technologies_standards): the main technologies involved in omics data sharing and analysis, including software tools and file formats, and the standards that are relevant to the domain, including metadata ontologies.
2. [Ethical Legal and Social Issues](legal_ethical): issues relating to storage and use of sensitive information and how this is viewed from a legal, ethical and social perspective.
3. [Activities and Agencies](activities_agencies): major human omics projects and organisations involved in the generation, storage and analysis of omics data.
4. [Repositories](repositories): significant Australian and international repositories of human omics data.

We consider this a work in progress and would welcome your feedback and contributions. See the [Contribute](contribute) page for further info on how to contribute to this project.
